.. _gsoc_2012:

Google Summer of Code 2012: Project Ideas
-----------------------------------------
Plastimatch is a medical image computation project, focusing on 
high-performance algorithms for image registration, 
image segmentation, and image reconstruction.  

This page describes a list of project ideas for 
`Google Summer of Code 2012 <http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/homepage/google/gsoc2012>`_.
The projects have been designed to be (1) interesting, (2) useful, 
and (3) achievable within the 3 month time limit.  
Other projects that are not on this list 
are also welcome -- please contact us using email list.
If you are interested in participating, please familiarize 
yourself with our software infrastructure:

* :ref:`contents`
* `Download page (svn) <http://forge.abcd.harvard.edu/gf/project/plastimatch/scmsvn/?action=AccessInfo>`_
* `E-mail list <http://groups.google.com/group/plastimatch>`_

3D-Slicer plugin for DRR generation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Description:**  Plastimatch currently runs as a plugin for 
`3D Slicer <http://slicer.org>`_.
There are already existing plugins for B-spline registration, 
DICOM-RT interchange, and dose comparison tools, however there is 
no plugin for DRR generation.  In this project, you would create a new 
command line plugin to allow users to create DRRs in 3D-Slicer.
The project could be expanded to allow interactive selection of 
source and target positions using Slicer's 3D viewer.

**Difficulty:** Basic to intermediate

**Skills:** C++

**Mentors:** TBD

OpenCL-accelerated FDK tomographic reconstruction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Description:**  The FDK algorithm is the most popular method 
for creating 3D volumetric images from cone-beam projections.
Although a basic OpenCL implementation exists, it is not 
very fast because it doesn't take advantage of hardware 
interpolators.  The goal of this project is to impove 
the OpenCL FDK implementation to use hardware interpolation.  
The project can be expanded to applying hardware interpolation 
to DRR generation.

**Difficulty:** Basic to intermediate

**Skills:** C++

**Mentors:** TBD

Your project here
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Description:**  We invite your project proposal related to 
medical image computation.

**Difficulty:** Varies

**Skills:** Varies

**Mentors:** Varies
