doc/sphinx/packaging.rst, before:

Packaging plastimatch
=====================

This section describes the recommended build configuration for 
building and packaging the official plastimatch binaries.

Plastimatch binaries should not include the 3D Slicer plugins.  
Those will be handled by the Slicer extension system.

Third party libraries to be used (Plastimatch 1.5.0)::

  CUDA            3.0.14
  DCMTK           3.5.4             (Windows only)
  FFTW            3.2.2             (Windows only)
  ITK             3.20.0
  wxWidgets       2.8.12            (Windows only)

Configuration settings - leave at default unless otherwise specified.
Pay special attention to the following::

  BUILD_SHARED_LIBS           ??      (ON for windows, OFF for unix)
  PLM_CONFIG_VERSION_STRING   1.5.0   (change this)
  PLM_CUDA_ALL_DEVICES        ON      (this is default)
  PLM_INSTALL_RPATH           OFF     (change this, only relevant for Unix)
  PLM_USE_GPU_PLUGINS         ON      (this is default)
  PLM_USE_SS_IMAGE_VEC        ON      (change this, but should be OFF for slicer plugin)

Building a tarball
------------------
Official tarballs are built on my home computer: wormwood

#. Make sure the changelog is up-to-date
#. Update source into plastimatch-pristene
#. Run make package_source
#. Unpack and test tarball
#. Upload to web site

Then, do a few small things to get ready for next time

#. Add version number and date to changelog
#. Bump version number in CMakeLists

Building a windows binary
-------------------------

The Windows build uses the MSVC 2008 express compiler.  
This means 32-bit (only), and no OpenMP.

#. Build/install all required 3rd party libraries.
#. Double check CPACK version number (at bottom of CMakeLists.txt)
#. Verify that svn is not modified (i.e. do svn update; svn diff)
#. Build plastimatch (start with a fresh cmake)
#. Run test cases, make sure all pass
#. Build package
#. Test package for missing dlls by making sure plastimatch runs

Building a plastimatch deb package using cpack
----------------------------------------------

This “How to” describes the way for build and 
sign a deb package of plastimatch using the cpack tool.
The deb files that are on the website are builded 
into two GNU/Linux Ubuntu 10.04.1 OSs (32 and
64 bits) virtualized by Virtualbox in a GNU/Linux Fedora 14 64 bits.

Packages needed::

  build-essential
  cmake
  dpkg-sig
  fftw
  gfortran
  libsqlite3-dev
  sqlite3
  uuid-dev

*Dependences*

The only one dependence for the packages that will be builded 
is libgfortran3, but it'll be manage 
from the manager package system of the OS.

*Build the package*

- Download the code via svn and choose the plastimatch folder as working directory
- Create a folder called “build”
- Copy the man page files (locate in plastimatch/doc/man) into the working directory
- Copy the bash completion file (locate in plastimatch/extra/bash_completion) into the working directory
- Choose the folder “build” as working directory and run::

    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..

- And then::

    cpack ..

- wait a few of minuts for the creation of deb file
- finally use dpkg-sig tool for sign the deb file (a gpg key must be alredy created)::

    dpkg-sig --sign USERNAME plastimatch_1930_ARCH_TYPE.deb

For questions, clarifications, corrections or comments please write to:
p.zaffino@yahoo.it

Commit message:

Downgrade version number; add test dependencies

doc/sphinx/packaging.rst, after:

Packaging plastimatch
=====================

This section describes the recommended build configuration for 
building and packaging the official plastimatch binaries.

Plastimatch binaries should not include the 3D Slicer plugins.  
Those will be handled by the Slicer extension system.

Third party libraries to be used (Plastimatch 1.5.0)::

  CUDA            3.0.14
  DCMTK           3.5.4             (Windows only)
  FFTW            3.2.2             (Windows only)
  ITK             3.20.0
  wxWidgets       2.8.12            (Windows only)

Configuration settings - leave at default unless otherwise specified.
Pay special attention to the following::

  BUILD_SHARED_LIBS           ??      (ON for windows, OFF for unix)
  PLM_CONFIG_VERSION_STRING   1.5.0   (change this)
  PLM_CUDA_ALL_DEVICES        ON      (this is default)
  PLM_INSTALL_RPATH           OFF     (change this, only relevant for Unix)
  PLM_USE_GPU_PLUGINS         ON      (this is default)
  PLM_USE_SS_IMAGE_VEC        ON      (change this, but should be OFF for slicer plugin)

Building a tarball
------------------
Official tarballs are built on my home computer: wormwood

#. Make sure the changelog is up-to-date
#. Update source into plastimatch-pristene
#. Run make package_source
#. Unpack and test tarball
#. Upload to web site

Then, do a few small things to get ready for next time

#. Add version number and date to changelog
#. Bump version number in CMakeLists

Making debian version (upgrading tarball)
-----------------------------------------
This is done on wormwood as well.

#. Go to plastimatch/trunk
#. Update changelog by running dch, such as "dch -v 1.5.4+dfsg0-1"
#. Repackage tarballs, by running "debian/get_orig_source"
#. Test out by running debuild, such as "run_debuild.pl"
#. Test out again by running pbuilder, such as "run_pbuilder.sh"

Note:

#. Sometimes you have to refresh your pbuilder environment, such as 
   "sudo pbuilder --clean && sudo pbuilder --update"

Building a windows binary
-------------------------

The Windows build uses the MSVC 2008 express compiler.  
This means 32-bit (only), and no OpenMP.

#. Build/install all required 3rd party libraries.
#. Double check CPACK version number (at bottom of CMakeLists.txt)
#. Verify that svn is not modified (i.e. do svn update; svn diff)
#. Build plastimatch (start with a fresh cmake)
#. Run test cases, make sure all pass
#. Build package
#. Test package for missing dlls by making sure plastimatch runs

Building a plastimatch deb package using cpack
----------------------------------------------

This “How to” describes the way for build and 
sign a deb package of plastimatch using the cpack tool.
The deb files that are on the website are builded 
into two GNU/Linux Ubuntu 10.04.1 OSs (32 and
64 bits) virtualized by Virtualbox in a GNU/Linux Fedora 14 64 bits.

Packages needed::

  build-essential
  cmake
  dpkg-sig
  fftw
  gfortran
  libsqlite3-dev
  sqlite3
  uuid-dev

*Dependences*

The only one dependence for the packages that will be builded 
is libgfortran3, but it'll be manage 
from the manager package system of the OS.

*Build the package*

- Download the code via svn and choose the plastimatch folder as working directory
- Create a folder called “build”
- Copy the man page files (locate in plastimatch/doc/man) into the working directory
- Copy the bash completion file (locate in plastimatch/extra/bash_completion) into the working directory
- Choose the folder “build” as working directory and run::

    cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..

- And then::

    cpack ..

- wait a few of minuts for the creation of deb file
- finally use dpkg-sig tool for sign the deb file (a gpg key must be alredy created)::

    dpkg-sig --sign USERNAME plastimatch_1930_ARCH_TYPE.deb

For questions, clarifications, corrections or comments please write to:
p.zaffino@yahoo.it
