doc/sphinx/segmentation_command_file_reference.rst, before:

.. _segmentation_command_file_reference:

Segmentation command file reference
-----------------------------------

The mabs parameter file can have seven sections: PREALIGNMENT, ATLAS-SELECTION, 
TRAINING, REGISTRATION, STRUCTURES, LABELING and OPTIMIZATION_RESULT.
Each section contatins specific entries that can not be mixed.
All the possible parameters are listed below:


.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 20 20 20 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Section
     - Default value
     - Possible values
     - Description
   * - mode
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - disabled
     - disabled, default, custom
     - Set the method for prealign the images
   * - reference
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - 
     - Set the reference image
   * - spacing
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - 
     - Set the reference spacing
   * - registration_config
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - Set the registration parmameters for prealign if "custom" mode is chosen
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - enable_atlas_selection
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - false
     - true, false
     - Enable atlas selection process
   * - atlas_selection_criteria
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - nmi
     - nmi, nmi-post, nmi-ratio, mse, mse-post, mse-ratio, random, precomputed
     - Set the criterion to use for ranking the atlases (see at the bottom of this page for further explanations)
   * - similarity_percent_threshold
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 0.40
     - Ranging from 0.0 to 1.0
     - Percentage threshold used to pick the atlases from the ranking obtained on the basis of a nmi/mse similarity value.
       All the atlases having a similarity value greater equal to the following value will be selected.
       minimum_similarity_percentage_value = similarity_min + (threshold * (similarity_max - similarity_min))
   * - atlases_from_ranking
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - -1 (means disabled)
     - ranging from 0 to the whole number of atlases
     - Number of atlases to pick from the ranking (nmi/mse based or precomputed).
   * - mi_histogram_bins
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 100
     - as usual for mi histogram bins setting
     - Set the number of histogram bins to use for nmi computation
   * - roi_mask
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - image file name (.mha/.mhd/.nii.gz/.nrrd/ecc)
     - Set the mask to reduce the volume of the subject/atlas images where the nmi/mse will be computed
   * - selection_reg_parms
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - File where are stored the registration parameters (without GLOBAL stage) that will be used for the nmi-post, nmi-ratio mse-post and mse-ratio selection
   * - lower_mi_value_subject
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the subject image. Anyway lower than the upper_mi_value_subject
     - Lower intensity bound on the histogram of the subject image. Only the values greater than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - upper_mi_value_subject
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the subject image. Anyway higher than the lower_mi_value_subject
     - Upper intensity bound on the histogram of the subject image. Only the values lower than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - lower_mi_value_atlas
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the atlas image. Anyway lower than the upper_mi_value_atlas
     - Lower intensity bound on the histogram of the atlas image. Only the values greater than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - upper_mi_value_atlas
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the atlas image. Anyway higher than the lower_mi_value_atlas
     - Upper intensity bound on the histogram of the atlas image. Only the values lower than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - min_random_atlases
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 6
     - ranging from 1 to the whole number of atlases. Anyway equal/lower than max_random_atlases
     - Minimum number on atlases to extract when random selection is choosen
   * - max_random_atlases
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 14
     - ranging from 1 to the whole number of atlases. Anyway equal/greater than min_random_atlases
     - Maximim number on atlases to extract when random selection is choosen
   * - precomputed_ranking
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - note set
     - text file where a precomputed ranking was stored
     - Text file containing the precomputed ranking. For each line there is a ranking for an patient.
       The style is: 
       patient1: atl1 atl2 atl3 atl4 
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - training_dir
     - TRAINING
     - not set
     - folder path
     - Folder that contains the data for the training
   * - fusion_criteria
     - TRAINING
     - gaussian
     - "gaussian", "staple" and "gaussian,staple"
     - Labels fusion criterion
   * - distance_map_algorithm
     - TRAINING
     - not set
     -
     - Implementation for distance map computation
   * - minsim_values
     - TRAINING
     - L 0.0001:1:0.0001
     -
     - Minimum similarity values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - rho_values
     - TRAINING
     - 1:1:1
     - 
     - Rho values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - sigma_values
     - TRAINING
     - L 1.7:1:1.7
     - 
     - Sigma values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - threshold_values
     - TRAINING
     - 0.5
     - 
     - Threshold values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - write_distance_map_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write distance map files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_thresholded_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write thresholded files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_weight_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write weight files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_warped_images
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write warped images on the disk
   * - write_warped_structures
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write warped structures on the disk
   * - confidence_weight 
     - TRAINING
     - 1.0
     -
     - Multiplicative factor for the prior probability that any pixel would be classified as inside the structure (only for staple fusion)
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - registration_config
     - REGISTRATION
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - Set the registration parmameters for the deformable registration
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - no predefined entries, just the list of the structures to segment (without extension file)
     - STRUCTURES
     - not set
     - 
     -
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - input
     - LABELING
     - not set
     -
     -
   * - output
     - LABELING
     - not set
     -
     -
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - registration
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - not set
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_rho
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 1.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_sigma
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 30.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_minsim
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 0.3
     -
     -
   * - optimization_result_confidence_weight
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 1.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_thresh
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 0.4
     -
     -

The possible atlas selection criteria are nmi, nmi-post, nmi-ratio, mse, mse-post, mse-ratio, random, precomputed.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 60
   :header-rows: 1
   
   * - Criterion
     - Description
   * - nmi
     - Normalized mutual information computed between prealigned (ridgly) images
   * - nmi-post
     - Normalized mutual information computed between images after a deformable registration
   * - nmi-ratio
     - Score calculated using the normalized mutual information computed before and after a deformable registration
   * - mse
     - Root mean square error computed between prealigned (ridgly) images
   * - mse-post
     - Root mean square error computed between images after a deformable registration
   * - mse-ratio
     - Score calculated using the root mean square error computed before and after a deformable registration
   * - random
     - Random selection of a random number of atlases
   * - precomputed
     - Ranking read from a text file containing a precomputed list of atlases

Commit message:

[MABS - atlas selection] add percentage_nmi_random_sample parameter

doc/sphinx/segmentation_command_file_reference.rst, after:

.. _segmentation_command_file_reference:

Segmentation command file reference
-----------------------------------

The mabs parameter file can have seven sections: PREALIGNMENT, ATLAS-SELECTION, 
TRAINING, REGISTRATION, STRUCTURES, LABELING and OPTIMIZATION_RESULT.
Each section contatins specific entries that can not be mixed.
All the possible parameters are listed below:


.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 20 20 20 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Section
     - Default value
     - Possible values
     - Description
   * - mode
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - disabled
     - disabled, default, custom
     - Set the method for prealign the images
   * - reference
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - 
     - Set the reference image
   * - spacing
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - 
     - Set the reference spacing
   * - registration_config
     - PREALIGNMENT
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - Set the registration parmameters for prealign if "custom" mode is chosen
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - enable_atlas_selection
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - false
     - true, false
     - Enable atlas selection process
   * - atlas_selection_criteria
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - nmi
     - nmi, nmi-post, nmi-ratio, mse, mse-post, mse-ratio, random, precomputed
     - Set the criterion to use for ranking the atlases (see at the bottom of this page for further explanations)
   * - similarity_percent_threshold
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 0.40
     - Ranging from 0.0 to 1.0
     - Percentage threshold used to pick the atlases from the ranking obtained on the basis of a nmi/mse similarity value.
       All the atlases having a similarity value greater equal to the following value will be selected.
       minimum_similarity_percentage_value = similarity_min + (threshold * (similarity_max - similarity_min))
   * - atlases_from_ranking
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - -1 (means disabled)
     - ranging from 0 to the whole number of atlases
     - Number of atlases to pick from the ranking (nmi/mse based or precomputed).
   * - mi_histogram_bins
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 100
     - as usual for mi histogram bins setting
     - Set the number of histogram bins to use for nmi computation
   * - percentage_nmi_random_sample
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set by plastimatch, itk default value is used
     - between 0 (not included) and 1 (included)
     - Set the number of random voxels to use for NMI computation.
       The final value is equal to the number of voxels of fixe images time the set value.
   * - roi_mask
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - image file name (.mha/.mhd/.nii.gz/.nrrd/ecc)
     - Set the mask to reduce the volume of the subject/atlas images where the nmi/mse will be computed
   * - selection_reg_parms
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - File where are stored the registration parameters (without GLOBAL stage) that will be used for the nmi-post, nmi-ratio mse-post and mse-ratio selection
   * - lower_mi_value_subject
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the subject image. Anyway lower than the upper_mi_value_subject
     - Lower intensity bound on the histogram of the subject image. Only the values greater than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - upper_mi_value_subject
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the subject image. Anyway higher than the lower_mi_value_subject
     - Upper intensity bound on the histogram of the subject image. Only the values lower than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - lower_mi_value_atlas
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the atlas image. Anyway lower than the upper_mi_value_atlas
     - Lower intensity bound on the histogram of the atlas image. Only the values greater than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - upper_mi_value_atlas
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - not set
     - in the range of the intesities of the atlas image. Anyway higher than the lower_mi_value_atlas
     - Upper intensity bound on the histogram of the atlas image. Only the values lower than this threshold will be used for nmi computation
   * - min_random_atlases
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 6
     - ranging from 1 to the whole number of atlases. Anyway equal/lower than max_random_atlases
     - Minimum number on atlases to extract when random selection is choosen
   * - max_random_atlases
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - 14
     - ranging from 1 to the whole number of atlases. Anyway equal/greater than min_random_atlases
     - Maximim number on atlases to extract when random selection is choosen
   * - precomputed_ranking
     - ATLAS-SELECTION
     - note set
     - text file where a precomputed ranking was stored
     - Text file containing the precomputed ranking. For each line there is a ranking for an patient.
       The style is: 
       patient1: atl1 atl2 atl3 atl4 
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - training_dir
     - TRAINING
     - not set
     - folder path
     - Folder that contains the data for the training
   * - fusion_criteria
     - TRAINING
     - gaussian
     - "gaussian", "staple" and "gaussian,staple"
     - Labels fusion criterion
   * - distance_map_algorithm
     - TRAINING
     - not set
     -
     - Implementation for distance map computation
   * - minsim_values
     - TRAINING
     - L 0.0001:1:0.0001
     -
     - Minimum similarity values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - rho_values
     - TRAINING
     - 1:1:1
     - 
     - Rho values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - sigma_values
     - TRAINING
     - L 1.7:1:1.7
     - 
     - Sigma values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - threshold_values
     - TRAINING
     - 0.5
     - 
     - Threshold values for gaussian labels fusion
   * - write_distance_map_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write distance map files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_thresholded_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write thresholded files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_weight_files
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write weight files on the disk (only for gaussian fusion)
   * - write_warped_images
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write warped images on the disk
   * - write_warped_structures
     - TRAINING
     - 1 (true)
     - 0 (false) or 1 (true)
     - Write warped structures on the disk
   * - confidence_weight 
     - TRAINING
     - 1.0
     -
     - Multiplicative factor for the prior probability that any pixel would be classified as inside the structure (only for staple fusion)
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - registration_config
     - REGISTRATION
     - not set
     - plastimatch registration file without the GLOABL section
     - Set the registration parmameters for the deformable registration
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - no predefined entries, just the list of the structures to segment (without extension file)
     - STRUCTURES
     - not set
     - 
     -
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - input
     - LABELING
     - not set
     -
     -
   * - output
     - LABELING
     - not set
     -
     -
   * -
     -
     -
     -
     -
   * - registration
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - not set
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_rho
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 1.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_sigma
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 30.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_minsim
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 0.3
     -
     -
   * - optimization_result_confidence_weight
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 1.0
     -
     -
   * - gaussian_weighting_voting_thresh
     - OPTIMIZATION_RESULT
     - 0.4
     -
     -

The possible atlas selection criteria are nmi, nmi-post, nmi-ratio, mse, mse-post, mse-ratio, random, precomputed.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 60
   :header-rows: 1
   
   * - Criterion
     - Description
   * - nmi
     - Normalized mutual information computed between prealigned (ridgly) images
   * - nmi-post
     - Normalized mutual information computed between images after a deformable registration
   * - nmi-ratio
     - Score calculated using the normalized mutual information computed before and after a deformable registration
   * - mse
     - Root mean square error computed between prealigned (ridgly) images
   * - mse-post
     - Root mean square error computed between images after a deformable registration
   * - mse-ratio
     - Score calculated using the root mean square error computed before and after a deformable registration
   * - random
     - Random selection of a random number of atlases
   * - precomputed
     - Ranking read from a text file containing a precomputed list of atlases
