.TH bspline 7 "16 May 2010" "1.4-beta" "Plastimatch User Manual"

.SH NAME
bspline - performs deformable registration

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B bspline [options]... [fixed image] [moving image]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility performs the proton dose calculation given a CT volume
of the patient anatomy and a file containing the character of the
proton beam.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -A hardware
Either "cpu" or "cuda".  If not specified, proton_dose will perform the
proton dose computation using the CPU.  If your system is equipped
with an NVIDIA GPU and CUDA has been installed, specifying "cuda"
will accelerate the computation by utilizing your graphics card.

.TP
.B -a [steepest | lbfgsb]
Selects the optimization algorithm.

.TP
.B -M [mse | mi]
Selects the similarity metric used for the registration.
MSE (Mean Squared Error) is fast and geared towards registering
unimodal image volumes.  MI (Mutual Information) is somewhat slower,
but is capable of multimodal image registration.

.TP
.B -f implementation
List implementations here.

.TP
.B -m iterations
Specifies how man cost function evaluations should be performed.  The
default is 10.

.TP
.B --factr value
L-BFGS-B optimizer cost convergence tolerance. The default is 1e+7.

.TP
.B --pgtol value
L-BFGS-B optimizer projected gradient tolerance.  The default is 1e-5.

.TP
.B -s "i j k"
Integer knot spacing of the B-spline control grid.  Quantity is
specified in voxels.

.TP
.B -h filename prefix
When using Mutual Information as a similarity metric (-M mi), this
option will generate an X-Pixel Map (XPM) image containing the fixed,
moving, and joint histograms for each cost function evaluation.  File
names will begin with the specified prefix and will end with the number
of the cost function evaluation.

.TP
.B -V filename
Upon completion, the vector field describing the registration will
be written to disk with the specified filename.

.TP
.B -X filename
Used to load a set of B-spline coefficients.

.TP
.B -x filename
Writes B-spline coefficients to disk with the specified filename.

.TP
.B -O filename
Upon completion, the moving image will be warped by the computed
vector field and written to disk with the specified filename.

.TP
.B --fixed-landmarks filename
Loads the fixed image landmarks specified in the provided filename.

.TP
.B --moving-landmarks filename
Loads the moving image landmarks specified in the provided filename.

.TP
.B --warped-landmarks filename
Write the warped image landmarks to disk with the specified filename.

.TP
.B --landmark-stiffness value
Relative weight of landmarks

.TP
.B -F implementation
Specifies the landmark implementation to be used.

.TP
.B --young-modulus value
Specifies Young's Modulus (cost of vector field gradient).

.TP
.B --rbf-radius value
Apply radial basis functions with the specified radius.

.TP
.B --debug
Produces various debugging files in the current directory.

.SH EXAMPLES

Registration of fixed image fixed.mha to moving image moving.mha
using the MSE similarity metric, 20 cost function
evaluations, writing vector field to vf.mha, warped image volume
to warped.mha:

.B bspline -a lbfgsb -M mse -m 20 -V vf.mha -O warp.mha fixed.mha moving.mha


Registration of fixed image fixed.mha to moving image moving.mha
using the MI similarity metric, 20 cost function
evaluations, writing vector field to vf.mha, warped image volume
to warped.mha.  GPU accelerated:

.B bspline -A cuda -a lbfgsb -M mi -m 20 -V vf.mha -O warp.mha fixed.mha moving.mha
