.TH proton_dose 7 "16 May 2010" "1.4-beta" "Plastimatch User Manual"

.SH NAME
proton_dose - performs proton dose calculation

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B proton_dose [options]... -p [profile] [ct volume] [output]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility performs the proton dose calculation given a CT volume
of the patient anatomy and a file containing the character of the
proton beam.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -A hardware
Either "cpu" or "cuda".  If not specified, proton_dose will perform the
proton dose computation using the CPU.  If your system is equipped
with an NVIDIA GPU and CUDA has been installed, specifying "cuda"
will accelerate the computation by utilizing your graphics card.

.TP
.B -src "x y z"
Add description of this feature here.

.TP
.B -iso "x y z"
Add description of this feature here.

.TP
.B -vup "x y z"
Add description of this feature here.

.TP
.B -s scale
Scale the intensity of the output file

.TP
.B -d detail
0 = full detail. Calculates the dose everywhere in the volume.

1 = beam path only. Only calculates the dose along the beam path.
This means that dose received by tissue exclusively from protons
that have scattered outside the beam path will be neglected.  Because
this method is much faster than full detail, it can be used to
obtain a rough estimate before performing the full dose computation.

.TP
.B -u step
Defines the resolution of the ray trace used to perform the dose
calculation.  This quantity is in millimeters (mm).

.TP
.B -p file
Required.  Used to specify the file describing the
character of the proton beam.

.TP
.B --debug
Dumps various debug files to the current directory.

.SH EXAMPLES
proton_dose -d pdd.59 ct_vol.mha dose.mha
